Which programming languages do you prefer and why?
What is a class and a super class?
What’s the difference between Process and Thread?
What is a constructor?
What is a message?
What is an array?
What is a stream?
Describe a singleton
What is an abstract class?
Provide some C source code
Comparison between method and constructor
What are the steps for creating the object?
What is the difference between overloading and overriding?
What is the difference between an interface and an abstract class?
What javascript frameworks are you familiar with?
What do you know about the software development cycle?
What is the transport layer?
What is the application layer?
What is a file?
What is a class?
What is an object?
What is the different OOPS principle?
What is inheritance?
What is polymorphism?
What are instance and class variables?
Compare method and constructor?
What is a singleton class?
What are the steps for creating the object?
What is the different type of access modifiers?
Which is the highest operator precedence in Java?
What is the difference between equals() and method and == operator?
Is string class final?
What is a wrapper class?
Difference between overloading and overriding?
What are multiple inheritances in Java?
What is a stream?
What is a Character stream?
What is a Byte stream?
What is an Interface?
Difference between class and interface?
What is an abstract class?
What is multiple inheritance? What are its advantages and disadvantages?
Briefly describe the correct usage of the following HTML5 semantic elements
What were some of the key goals and motivations for the HTML5 specification?
What are some of the key new features in HTML5?
What are some advantages of using Python over other programming languages?
Explain the difference between compile-time and runtime, then discuss how Python uses them during code checking.
What is a view and what are some advantages of it?
Is it possible to find a loop in a Linked list?
Two linked lists L1 and L2 intersects at a particular node N1 and from there all other nodes till the end are common. The length of the lists are not same. What are the possibilities to find N1?
Given a Binary Search Tree (BST), print its values in ascending order.
Is it possible to implement a queue using Linked List ? Enqueue & Dequeue should be O(1).
Given a Tree, is it possible to find the greatest and least among leaves in linear time?
Is it possible to find the greatest and least value among the nodes in a given BST without using any extra variables?
Is it possible to implement 2 stack in an array?
Given two keys K1 & K2, write an algorithm to print all the elements between them with K1<=K2 in a BST
How many numbers of addresses are usable for addressing in a Class C network?
How are the data units at Application layer is called?
What protocol is used by DNS name servers? Justify.
Which of the following is used to direct a packet inside an internal network?
What is Acceptance Testing?
What’s the Software Testing?
What is Accessibility Testing?
What is Application Programming Interface (API)?
What is Ad Hoc Testing?
What is Beta Testing?
What is Backus-Naur Form?
What is Application Binary Interface (ABI)?
What is the difference between verification and validation?
What is Binary Portability Testing?
What is Bug?
What is Defect?
What is Branch Testing?
What is Breadth Testing?
What's the Alpha Testing?
What’s the Test Case?
What's the Beta Testing?
What is Component Testing?
What is End-to-End testing?
What is CAST?
What is CMM?
What is Compatibility Testing?
What is Debugging?
What is Dependency Testing?
What’s the Database testing?
What is the difference between interoperability and compatibility testing with some examples?
What’s the Traceability Matrix?
A document that showing the relationship between Test Requirements and Test Cases.
How many types of approaches are used in Integration Testing?
There are two types of approaches used:Bottom-Up, Top-Down.
What is Emulator?
A device, computer program, or system that accepts the same inputs and produces the same outputs as a given system.
What is Functional Decomposition?
A technique used during planning, analysis, and design; creates a functional hierarchy for the software.
What is Integration Testing?
Testing of combined parts of an application to determine if they function together correctly. Usually performed after unit and functional testing. This type of testing is especially relevant to client/server and distributed systems.
What is Metric?
A standard of measurement. Software metrics are the statistics describing the structure or content of a program. A metric should be a real objective measurement of something such as a number of bugs per lines of code.
What is Quality Assurance?
All those planned or systematic actions necessary to provide adequate confidence that a product or service is of the type and quality needed and expected by the customer.
What is Race Condition?
A cause of concurrency problems. Multiple accesses to a shared resource, at least one of which is a write, with no mechanism used by either to moderate simultaneous access.
What is Scalability Testing?
Performance testing focused on ensuring the application under test gracefully handles increases in workload.
What is Software Requirements Specification?
A deliverable that describes all data, functional and behavioral requirements, all constraints, and all validation requirements for software.
What is an operating system?
An operating system is a program that acts as an intermediary between the user and the computer hardware. The purpose of an OS is to provide a convenient environment in which a user can execute programs in a convenient and efficient manner.
What are the different operating systems?
Batched operating systems
Multi-programmed operating systems
timesharing operating systems
Distributed operating systems
Real-time operating systems
What are the basic functions of an operating system?
Operating system controls and coordinates the use of the hardware among the various applications programs for various uses. Operating system acts as resource allocator and manager. Also operating system is control program which controls the user programs to prevent errors and improper use of the computer. It is especially concerned with the operation and control of I/O devices.
What is a kernel?
The kernel is the core and essential part of a computer operating system that provides basic services for all parts of OS.
What is the difference between microkernel and macro kernel?
The microkernel is a kernel which run services those are minimal for operating system performance. In this kernel, all other operations are performed by the processor. Macro Kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel. In monolithic kernel, all operating system code is in the single executable image.